---
title: '#88'
date: '2020-06-11'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/88/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'main'
---

Food addiction and binge eating disorder are very real, and both things I have have suffered from. There was a period around 10 years ago where I would each so much I would feel physically sick (though I never purged) and then deeply ashamed for allowing myself to do it. The shame would extend to the process of getting enough food to binge. I lived close to three smaller, local shops all of which small enough for the owners and staff to know me. I would rotate each shop so they didn't know I was buying that much bad food on a daily basis.

The comfort from eating and the shame that followed became a cycle for me. A form of self harm - getting the immediate satisfaction of the carbs and sugar, then feeling terrible after BUT also feeling like I deserved that discomfort.

I had a... let's call it an 'episode' this week. More than once. And it's left me feeling physically and mentally drained. Like any addiction, logic isn't enough to defeat the urges. After a few days of no vegetables or fresh meat or fish, I cooked myself a large piece of salmon and a pile of green vegetables, the the moment I started to eat it I felt better. Instantly better. My mood lifted and I had an energy kick that made me want to work out. One meal did that.

I've talked before about streaks. It's day 79 for German lessons, and day 88 for writing. I think I may need a food streak too.
