---
title: '#85'
date: '2020-06-08'
mobile: false
featured: true
permalink: '/daily/85/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'main'
---

Until his statue was ripped down and thrown into the docks in Bristol, I had never heard of Edward Colston. I'd heard of Colston Hall, but I had no idea who it was named after and I'd never looked it up. You don't imagine that the name of a slave trader would be used to name more than one landmark in a major UK city. But there it is.

To have a statue of a slave trader proudly displayed in 2020 is incredible to me. A statue cements a person not just in history, but in the minds of the people who live and work nearby. Imagine walking past it and having a young child asking; who is he? And what did he do to be immortalised forever? And imagine then having to explain that he owned and transported people. That his company name was branded onto their chests. And that the 20,000 who died on the crossing from Africa to the Caribbean were merely thrown overboard.

I get that people see it as an act of vandalism, and that it should have been removed and placed in a museum. I'd have more sympathy for that viewpoint if the authorities hadn't been dragging their heels on an official removal for years, with even the proposal of an additional plaque to acknowledge what he'd done being too difficult to pull off. Official routes failed. I still hope it does end up in a museum, but with all the damage intact. That, too, is now a part of Edward Colston's history. What's more, the destruction of this statue is likely to push other councils to remove similar monuments before they the same fate.

I didn't do well in school, but I remember very clearly that in history we were not taught about Britain's relationship with slavery. We were not taught about colonialism. We were, however, taught about the US civil war leading myself and I'm sure many others to think that slavery and deep seated racism was and is a problem _over there_ and not something we need to own.

I'm making a reading list. I owe it to myself to better understand our history, race, privilege, and everything that goes along with it. And it's a signal of that privilege I have that I've got to my late 30s without ever needing to think about it. Because it happened to 'other people'.

Silence and ignorance is violence and I can't in good consciousness continue to ignore it.
