---
title: '#102'
date: '2020-06-25'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/102/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'daily'
---

A lot of people are looking at career changes. Coding bootcamps offer the promise of potential 6-figure salaries, some even having job interviews included in the (pretty steep) price.

I got into coding because I liked to mess around with design, and the internet seemed like a good place to show off my half baked and derivative ideas. It was always design first, but I seemed to go pro as a developer almost by accident.

I loved building websites. I don't really do that anymore–I work on a large scale web application and have (again, accidentally) slipped into a more full-stack position. It just happens to be JavaScript, so that's front end. Right?

Over the last few months I have been considering a career change in the other direction. I think I might want out of development; It's changed and I haven't. Where it was once a way for me to play with design by writing code, it's now much more about complex approaches. I'm not sure I could pass a technical interview that includes data structures and algorithms, much less to the job where that kind of knowledge is required.

I think this is going to take some time to do, or even get a plan together as to how I can move across to a design role. I don't even really know what my specialism would be, not to mention the financial issue of moving from a dev role with 10 years experience to a design role with none.
