---
title: '#84'
date: '2020-06-07'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/84/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'daily'
---

Pink Floyd is my favourite band of all time but Delicate Sound of Thunder, the 1988 live album, is pretty much unlistenable. The sound is directly from the 80s, the playing feels wooden and unrehearsed and nowhere is this more evident than in _Money_. I don't really know what they were thinking when they decided that a reggae tinged breakdown was a good idea, or the lounge-jazz styled section that follows. I don't know why Dick Parry wasn't on this tour but Scott Page's saxophone work has an almost Kenny G tone to it, like it's been fed through every digital effect available to make it seem polished.

Despite this absolute car crash of a performance, Guy Pratt's bass solo (I know that 'bass solo' should normally provoke terror) is really very good. It's tasteful, complex yet not soulless, and the use of an octave pedal make it sound of-the-time and modern at the same time. For added mystery around the decision making process in Pink Floyd these days, this solo was cut from the recently released Later Years box set.

It's pretty interesting for the worst and best moments of an album to occur in the same song. Another example is _This Love_ by Pantera. Hilarious emulated acoustic guitar, comedic lyrics that read like a 15 year old wrote them ('I'd kill myself for you, I'd kill you for myself'). It should be a total write-off. But right in the middle, there is an alternate riff and a half-time breakdown that, if they'd been used on a stand-alone song, would be among Dimebag's best.
