---
title: '#87'
date: '2020-06-10'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/87/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'daily'
---

Like most people who are office based, I have been working from home\* for the last few months while the COVID situation continues. Today during a meeting of the wider department there was quite a lot of talk from the head about remote, or 'distributed' working.

I am extremely happy that this is subject is being broached by people more senior in the business. They likely see the benefits in cost saving for offices, and the added flexibility available to the staff who are able to and choose to not be office based. I don't think it'll be for everyone, in particular those with young children have been having a terrible time with being at home, and others just do better in an office environment.

If working 100% remote becomes an option I'll take it without a second thought. Either working at home, or taking the opportunity to travel. The idea of staying in the Alps for a month, riding in the mornings and working into the evening when the rain sets in sounds absolutely perfect.

I've been looking for a remote job for a while, and it is often heavily contingent on a lot of work available to demonstrate ability, and with all the work I have done across my career being private (or just terrible) puts me at a disadvantage. I might have the good fortune for a remote job to come to me, and not the other way around.

\* It's fairly important to remember that there is a difference between 'working from home' and 'trying to work during a global pandemic'.
