---
title: '#82'
date: '2020-06-05'
mobile: false
permalink: '/daily/82/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

For most jobs that can carry the title of 'Engineer', or anything where something is being built for people to use, there are standards, certifications, training. You get qualified, you get training when things change.

Being a software developers, in particular a front end developer, that's not really the case. Of course there are bootcamps and training courses, and there are Microsoft certifications that carry the 'MVP' boast but they're not going to see you through most of your career. The change are huge and rapid.

By being a front end developer, you essentially agree to having to keep up with how things are done in your own time. You volunteer for homework forever.

If I think about how I would have gone about building a website 5 years ago vs today, it's night and day. While the foundations of HTML and CSS are still there and their progress has been marginally slower, JavaScript is now swallowing them up. React, with JSX and CSS-in-JS has changed the landscape significantly.

JSX allows you to create HTML in JavaScript. Purists would argue that it's not HTML, and they're right. It looks like HTML, and generates HTML, but because of HTML attributes like `class` and `for` being reserved words they have to changed to `className` and `htmlFor`. And while SVG can be written into JSX, all the hyphenated attributes have to be camel cased.

React's sledgehammer approach to creating user interfaces, and the fact that it belongs to Facebook, has me convinces that we'll one day too back at it and wonder what the hell we were thinking.

Give it 5 more years and I suspect we'll be closer to where we were 5 years ago. Putting a lot of the pressure on the server, delivering as little to the browser as possible, and staying as close to HTML standards as possible.
