---
day: '152'
date: '2023-01-15'
title: 'On ticket stubs'
---

Physical tickets are a thing of the past. Best case scenario, you get something for the wallet app on your phone but it's much more likely to be a PDF attached to an email with a QR code that only gets printed by older people because they're the only ones with printers.

Having covid brain means I can't concentrate on anything that needs any kind of clever. A book? Maybe The Da Vinci Code. TV shows? Brooklyn 99 is about as smart as I can manage. Writing? The last few days it's taken me hours. I type some keywords, have a rest, then fill in all the other words you apparently need to make the keywords make sense. And then I realise I have gone off on a tangent.

Ticket stubs. I looked through all the stubs I have, and here are ten of my favourites:

- **ATP vs The Fans, Minehead, 18th-20th May 2007.** The most remarkable festival I have ever attended. The likes of Mogwai, Yo La Tengo, Patti Smith, Shellac, Battles, Edan, Echo and the Bunnymen and [more](https://concerts.fandom.com/wiki/All_Tomorrow%27s_Parties_vs_the_Fans_2007) over a few stages. Price: £120.

- **David Bowie, Wembley Arena, London, 25th November 2003.** It's rare to be in the presence of someone widely regarded to be a deity. The [setlist](https://www.setlist.fm/setlist/david-bowie/2003/wembley-arena-london-england-43d66b57.html) opened with Rebel Rebel, and closed with Ziggy Stardust and cost just £46.

- **Glastonbury 27th-29th June 2003.** My first of three times at Glastonbury. I went to the stargreen ticket shop in soho 2 weeks before the festival and paid £105. Absolutely unrecognisable compared to the circus of going to Glastonbury now.

- **New York Rangers vs New Jersey Devils, Madison Square Garden, New York, 30th March 2009.** I wasn't quite ready for how much better hockey is in person than on TV. Far easier to follow, huge atmosphere, and great seats just a few rows from the ice. Price: $200.

- **The Mars Volta, The Electric Ballroom, London, 9th July 2003.** The most raw and high-energy [show](https://www.setlist.fm/setlist/the-mars-volta/2003/electric-ballroom-london-england-53f62b15.html) I ever attended. Something changed in my brain during those 90 minutes. Price: £12.

- **Les Claypool, Eagles Club, Milwaukee, 13th June 2006.** My first of the 21 Les Claypool shows I have seen so far. I was absolutely bursting with excitement for this, because at that time Les Claypool never toured Europe. I travelled to Chigaco alone and met people I knew from the Primus message board there. Somehow I got complementatry tickets but the next night in Chicago cost $25.

- **Bonnaroo, Tennessee, 16th-18th June 2006.** Following the Les Claypool shows in Milwaukee and Chicago, it was on to the Bonnaroo festival with a big group of people I met on the internet. I'm not sure how I was that bold. My only small complaint: Being told by Americans for three days straight that Bonnaroo is the biggest festival in the world when it had barely half the attendance of Glastonbury. $185 and 110°F.

- **Ozzfest, Milton Keynes, 26th May 2001.** My first festival and a metal-head's dream. The original Black Sabbath line up along with Slipknot, Tool, and a litanry of far less brag-worthy of-the-time bands. £32.50.

- **Live 8, Hyde Park, London, 2nd July 2005.** An endless, torturous day of bands all in order to see Pink Floyd with Roger Waters. Free. Or maybe Priceless.

- **Tool, Brixton Academy, London, 12th June 2001.** Absolutely perfect. A [setlist](https://www.setlist.fm/setlist/tool/2001/brixton-academy-london-england-3bd65494.html) I have recreated as a [playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/2LV3n1TwzLvNymT7TDpNzC?si=f3cbfb552ecc4d8f). The kind of show that makes you wonder why you'd ever listen to anything else. £14.
