---
day: '214'
date: '2023-03-18'
title: 'On Monuments'
---

Today is Milan San Remo. A 294km race that is one of cyclings Monuments; races that are considered the the most prestigious one-day events because of age, length and difficulty. The youngest monument is Tour of Flanders, first run over the Belgian cobbles in 1913. Milan San Remo has been every year since 1907, save for a break during the Second World War.

Milan San Remo is unique in that the action doesn't really begin until the last hour of racing as teams organise and pace their contenders to the foot of the Cipressa, the first of two climbs that separate those in form from those still ramping up in the early season. The Poggio is a decisive climb and descent where riders show their hands, make attacks that may or may not stick, and attempt to drop or at least tire the sprinters before the flat run-in to the finish.

While the race is uneventful for more than 200km, the final is so unpredictable that there hasn't been a repeat winner for more than 20 years, with Erik Zabel winning in 2000 and 2001. It's the only race where there is a strong chance of a win for grand tour contenders (Vincenzo Nibali, 2018), puncheurs (Julian Alaphilippe, 2019), and pure sprinters (Alexander Kristoff, 2014) alike.

Only three riders have won every monument throughout their career, most recently with Roger De Vlaeminck completing the set in 1979. Unsurprisingly, Eddy Merckx holds the all-time record with 19 monuments, 7 of which at Milan San Remo.
