---
day: '227'
date: '2023-03-31'
title: 'On the block'
---

Some days I write quickly. It might not be good but it just flows. Some days it takes some effort. Some days I end up writing about not being able to write and try and act as if this actually counts. Some days I write about the weather. Some days I write about the weather and the fact that I can't write. Some days I write about the weather and the fact that I can't write and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the weather or not. Some days I write about the weather and the fact that I can't write and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the weather or not and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the fact that I can't write or not. Some days I write about the weather and the fact that I can't write and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the weather or not and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the fact that I can't write or not and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the weather or not or not. Some days I write about the weather and the fact that I can't write and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the weather or not and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the fact that I can't write or not and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the weather or not or not and the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the fact that I'm not sure if I'm actually writing about the fact that I can't write or not.
