---
day: '523'
date: '2024-01-21'
title: 'On sequels and remakes'
---

Do remakes, sequels, or additional content related to something already established have any effect on the original?

[Many Saints of Newark](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt8110232/) was not good. While the cast was excellent and yielded some great performances the film seems to ignore so many things that are cannon in the series. It reduces characters to caricatures, punch-lines are forced in, and the end refers to something probably too subtle. It takes place too early for us to learn much about how Tony became Tony. A 10 episode series would have allowed more development and the space to suit the pace of the series.

The [Fargo](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fargo_(TV_series)>) TV series bears no relationship to the film and instead provides a universe for the stories to exist inside. The tone and aesthetic provides a backdrop and mood that sets the scene.

[Dark Side of the Moon Redux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dark_Side_of_the_Moon_Redux) is a full cover by former Pink Floyd member and writer of all the lyrics, Roger Waters. He claims it exists to revisit and reestablish the meaning of the album, both from the perspective of an older man and to correct people's misinterpretations. It's ok.

None of these have any affect on the original. The Sopranos and Dark Side of the Moon are not diminished by new projects that stand on their shoulders, and Fargo is not elevated now that we see more stories in the same universe.

I might argue that directors cuts and remasters that directly change original work are far more harmful, and yet these tend to be more widely celebrated and accepted.
