---
title: '#64'
date: '2020-05-18'
mobile: false
featured: true
permalink: '/daily/64/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'main'
---

A year ago I was in Toronto, and it was the result of the ultimate impulse purchase.

A few weeks before, my relationship of 5 years had ended and she pulled off a quite remarkable disappearing act. Telling me on a Friday morning she was leaving, when I got home from work she and the majority of her stuff was gone, and I didn't even know where. A few days later she picked up the rest of her stuff while I was out. And that was that.

Around a week later I'd travelled to London on a Thursday for a day of meetings. I had the Friday and the Monday off work and the plan was to _maybe_ stay in London for a couple of days, but more likely go back to Nottingham and use the time as a break from work and some time to myself as I was still getting to grips with being alone.

During the day on the Thursday I started to look at last minute deals and ended up booking a flight to and a hotel in Toronto that left the next morning and returned on the Monday. Was this a sensible use of my cash? Not even close. Did I care at that moment? It barely even registered. To be honest, I was mostly looking forward to the flight and the airport. There is a weirdly calming silence to those places for me.

Around that time I was really hurt by what had happened and the idea of being alone in a city where no one knew me was healing. I could be anonymous, I could walk and eat and be totally separated from my home which until recently had been shared. It was during this trip I came to terms with just how toxic the relationship really was, and how bad it has been for me for quite some time, yet it was impossible to see it until it was done. I was standing too close to the elephant.

When I realised yesterday that it was a year to the day since this had all happened it put me in a remarkably good mood. It doesn't feel like it's been a year and I'm not 100% healed from everything but knowing who and where I am now, and knowing that I am much better as a result really boosted me.

We're all on a journey, all making progress here and losses there. The highest highs and the lowest lows all end. The last year hasn't been easy, but even with lockdown still in place and my forced solitude still taking a toll, I feel incredibly optimistic for the first time in years.
