---
title: '#69'
date: '2020-05-23'
mobile: false
featured: true
permalink: '/daily/69/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

Let's complete the trilogy of phases today with possibly my favourite: Music.

I started to play drums when I was 11, and I got fairly good fairly quickly. Being the only person my year at school who could actually play meant I was quickly recruited into a band, drumming along to Oasis and Toploader covers. Over time, they started to write their own songs and I was never really that into it. But, I liked to play so I went along with it while having lessons and doing exams.

Over time, I was able to introduce them the bands I liked; Primus and Tool had my heart and while it took some time for it to click, they eventually got into it. The influence was huge. We became _crackpuppet_ and our music sounded exactly how you'd image a mixture of Primus and Tool to sound. Dave (bass) and James (guitar) were brothers and came up with a lot of ideas for riffs and patterns. I tried to make my drum parts interesting but they were largely derivative. I feel my strength was in arrangements, often hearing their ideas in a different way and combining them into complete instrumentals. I also tended to take control when figuring out how we played live, adding improvised sections and usually starting a set with the beginning of a track, going off and exploring and playing other songs, then finishing with the end of the song we started with. Other local bands said we were pretentious, and I took that as a good thing.

One of the issues was with vocals, and Ollie often struggled to come up with words and melodies. Trying to take lyrical influence from Rage Against The Machine when you're 4 white boys from Essex is hard to make convincing. After we'd recorded our second set of songs we quickly tried to keep writing but one of the last times we played live we dispensed with the set, Ollie sat it out, and the three of us just improvised for half an hour. It went surprisingly well, but it was clearly the end. Ollie was done, and with Dave and James not seeing eye to eye, we split.

This was almost the end of me playing drums at all. Drums are loud and hard to transport, and I was living in smaller and smaller places with no transport.

A brief reprise was to record [No Commercial Breaks](https://open.spotify.com/album/46TcxhnysjwNkRRNSFi06E?si=VeRU_jfcTpq7u876g74arQ) with Scroobius Pip. I was working with him at HMV, we got along well, shared a lot of music tastes, and he needed drums. The studio had an electric kit and I really don't like how it turned out. It sounds much too polished, and I think what he'd written really needed a harder, more raw sound. He went on to bigger and better things with Dan le Sac, I was left behind and never really recognised for all the things I did for him at the beginning, but... There isn't much to say about it. I could have made more noise, I could have tried to stay more involved, but at the time it didn't feel right for me.

I'm fine with where I am in relation to music. I'd love to play drums again, but the logistics of it remains hard to pull off. I suppose my only regret is that I've never seen a penny for my work with Scroobius Pip and at this point I certainly wont. But it was his graft and vision that made it all happen, and I was just a hired hand.

I may try and get the crackpuppet recordings online. They're interesting, and I think we could have matured into a pretty good band as we had plenty of ideas that we never managed to realise.
