---
title: '#56'
date: '2020-05-10'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/56/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

The bass I ordered arrived, and today I made a start on learning. This is going to be a long road. Having never played anything melodic I've never had to consider notes, scales, and whathaveyou.

I signed up for [Scott's Bass Lessons](https://scottsbasslessons.com/) (which is significatly better than it sounds) and learned the major scale and a couple of riffs to practice moving around the strings and fretboard. I struggled with two things: I don't think my hands are big enough, as stretching between frets was really hard, and after playing a riff I'd instantly forgotten it.

I love it though. I've been playing for a total of an hour, so my expectations are really low. It'll come if I do the work, like anything else.

Listening to a selection of Pino Palladino's performances with the likes of D'angelo earlier in the day either helped (I _really_ want to be able to play like that) or really didn't (I'll _never_ be able to play like that) but what I know now is that I'm much more eager to be able to play in a really laid back style than the massively technical slap bass of Les Claypool, who was until recently my bass idol. Now, Pino and Joe Dart are my guys.

I need to be patient. I also watched a really amazing Guy Pratt video featuring an octave effect, and having never known how that sound was produced I'm now slightly obsessed with it. What would I even do with it?
