---
title: '#63'
date: '2020-05-17'
mobile: false
permalink: '/daily/63/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

I wrote a while ago about [making your own website](https://short.is/writing/make-your-own-website), and today I made a quick change to remove another third party service from my work.

I like [CodePen](https://codepen.io/) a lot, and I'm not going to stop using it for fleshing out ideas and tests. The community is great, the people behind it are great, and it's fast and easy to use. However, like any other service it _could_ go away and take your data with it.

To mitigate this, and to help make my code examples and embeds faster, I have set up a quick subdomain, [examples.short.is](https://examples.short.is). I'm going to mirror most CodePen work here.

Any examples and experiments will be written into one HTML page with all CSS and JS being native to the browser. This will make for very fast code samples without CodePen's extras coming for the ride, and it'll allow the use of View Source to show the actual code in use.

View Source is how I got started, and I think that's true for a lot of people who've been doing this a while. A side effect of heavily transpiled, JavaScript driven, CSS-in-JS websites is that what you see in the source is nowhere near the DOM.

And, by keeping it totally free of libraries and frameworks it should hold up as a long standing record of ideas and progress.

And, in the process, I learned that TTL doesn't make any difference if you don't actually save your changes when editing DNS. It took an embarrassingly long time to realise my mistake.
