---
title: '#70'
date: '2020-05-24'
mobile: false
permalink: '/daily/70/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

We've reached a point where the Tories are so absolutely shamelessly shit that people (Piers Morgan) and newspapers (The Daily Mail) whose every utterance I would have previously abhorred are now making statements I agree with.

Johnson's defence of Demonic Cummings in light of his flagrant disregard of both the letter and the spirit of the lockdown is nothing short of disgusting. Anyone not brainwashed or wilfully ignorant can see this. For the man who is masterminding the current administration to ignore his own message would be a sackable offence on every single timeline except, apparently, the one we're on.

When I was much younger, by Dad always voted Lib Dem. This was the pre-coalition Lib Dems, legitimately progressive, often radical and a real third party. While they never had a chance of power, they held enough cards to make waves. He now appears to be Conservative. Since lockdown began we've been talking more than usual, and he will always defend not only the government, but Johnson himself. He'll say that he's doing his best, that we've not had to deal with anything like this before and that Corbyn would be worse. Ah yes, the hypothetical scenario to justify the state of the actual reality. I love that one.

I am looking forward to our next call though. He's been reading the Daily Mail for years, and now that they've turned on Boris and his handling of the Cummings scenario is my Dad's opinion going to change? Or will he start to doubt the media now they're not confirming his views? Is he that easily led? Are we all?
