---
title: '#153'
date: '2020-08-15'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/153/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

Before [Gatsy](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/) started to implode on twitter I had already made my choice to move away from it.

It's not that I dislike React or GraphQL, it's more that I find them to be much too heavy handed when building the site you're using right now. The vast amount of JS that Gatsby ships - even when your site doesn't include any client side JavaScript that you authored - is insane. In order to make the site _blazing fast_ as claimed, it essentially duplicates the static HTML in JS in order to give you prefetching.

The very well circulated [twitter thread](https://twitter.com/tesseralis/status/1293649007739191296) makes the point that Gatsby is extremely driven by their own marketing, and I think that's 100% correct. I did some very basic profiling of build times for my own website, and with zero images, just 15 pages and a single request to a third party API took 1 minute and 25 seconds. My new build (using [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev/)) had at the time of testing 131 pages and the same API request and it took 29 seconds. This is out the box with no optimisation. Despite this, their site claims to be '2.5x faster than other static frameworks'. I'd love to see the stats behind that claim.

Finding out that they're pretty broken as a company has helped me feel good about my choice. I think it's fair to expect and forgive mistakes from start-ups trying to find their feet, but it appears they're far more concerned with image than with actually truly doing the right thing and the acknowledgement of the whole affiar has been lacking at best.

I think when v3 of this site is done I'll write more about my move to 11ty, why I like it so much and why it might not be right for a lot of sites or scanrios. I like working in React and honestly, a move back to templating languages after a few years working in JSX has been frustrating at times, but it's certainly a net gain and it's going to help me deliver a fast, accessibile, truly _personal_ webiste pretty quickly.
