---
title: '#152'
date: '2020-08-14'
mobile: false
permalink: '/daily/152/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

The France travel saga continues, with a new requirement for peoeple arriving in the UK from France to quarantine for 14 days. That in itself wouldn't be the end of the world, but France responded by requiring anyone arriving there from the UK to quaratine too. I had planned to go for one week.

I was supposed to be travelling with one other person who would need to lose two weeks of work if it were just a quarantine when getting back. He seems unsure as to what to do. We were also meeting people out there who have been travelling France in a motorhome for a month or so already and they're pretty much saying we can still go and it'll be fine.

I _need_ a break. I really do. But I also really dislike people who ignore the rules because of their own selfishness and I really don't want to become one. Even if we went and avoided restaurants, cafes and bars, what kind of trip would that be?

It's around 550 miles driving between Calais and the Alps, each way, within a week. We'd have to stop for fuel multiple times, to eat, to get water, and then to use the tunnel. None of that is anything like being in quarantine, and that's before another 5 hours driving back to the Midlands.

Among the justifications I have heard today are 'They can't police it', 'France has fewer cases than the UK', and 'The government has no idea what they're doing'. I don't disagree with any of that, but it's not really the point. The rules are in place to help prevent the spread of a virus that is deadly to some. Having spent 12 weeks almost entirely alone, I really do not want to forego my post-France plans and isolate for 2 weeks. It'll be bad for me and do much more harm than any of the good that one week away would do.

Plan B? Wales.
