---
title: '#140'
date: '2020-08-02'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/140/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

The cycling event I was supposed to be doing this year, La Marmotte, was supposed to take place in July, and due to COVID was moved to September. I thought this new date was purely to delay cancellation. I thought that them giving people the option to keep their place or defer to next year was a means to keep some revenue. The Etape du Tour has now been completely cancelled yet La Marmotte remains.

For these huge, mass-start events there are feed stations positioned around the course and they're usually pretty good. The expected checmical gels and energy drinks are there, but there are also apples, nuts, fruit and bread. I'd decribe them as a scrum, though. No one queues to get food, and really no one expects that. You get in, eat, and press on staying stationary for a little time as possible.

This is the part of the event that I just couldn't imagine working with social distancing. People looking for a good time aren't likely to wait their turn, and the organisers won't be able to easily police it.

It turns out their solution is pretty simple: No feed stations. They will be providing water and energy drinks, but no food.

This decision has pushed me to think seriously about not participating. Removing them won't remove risk, as people definitely need food over a 108 mile course and will go to cafes and restaurants. A sure fire way to stay distanced would be to carry food, but the amount needed for an event of this kind is absolutely vast. During the 2015 Etape du Tour I burned around 7,000 calories on a course 20 miles shorter. That's three days food.

I've been in two rooms for the majority of the last 4 months. What I need is a week away. There are a lot of quiet roads to ride in the Alps, so Why would I do an event that puts me at risk and adds to my stress?
