---
title: '#148'
date: '2020-08-10'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/148/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

If it aint broke, don't fix it. Right?

For decades the Butyl bicycle inner tube has been fine. They can be made pretty small, you can buy patches that work for them pretty much anywhere and they're cheap. Did any of that stop me trying a _new_ type of tube though? No.

My wheels aren't tubeless compatible so that's not an option, and I don't like the limited options for tyres. I also find the weight reduction claims to be fairly dubious as you need to factor in a sealant, so with all of that in mind the Tubolito inner tube sounds perfect.

Significantly lighter than a Butyl tube, and unlike latex can be used with carbon rim-brake wheels. They roll down smaller. And claimed to be tougher too? Oh yeah, and 5 times the price.

My first impressions were good - easy to fit, and didn't feel different at all. However, within the first 200 miles I got my first puncture for a few years. Not an issue on the road; I fitted a replacement and carried on, but the aftermath was not ideal.

The hole was near impossible to find, with trying to feel the leak and using a sink of water both being fruitless. In the end I had to go against the instructions and over inflate the tube to make the puncture worse. The repair required special patches specific for this kind of plastic (as these tubes are not rubber) which adds again to the higher running cost.

Tubes are the kind of thing you want to never think about, but I'm not sure I really trust them. If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
