---
title: '#209'
date: '2020-10-10'
mobile: false
permalink: '/daily/209/'
tags:
  - daily
  - discogs
layout: 'daily'
---

['Allelujah! Don't Bend Ascend](https://www.discogs.com/Godspeed-You-Black-Emperor-Allelujah-Dont-Bend-Ascend/release/3917263) felt like a comback album from Godspeed You! Black Emperor (notice the slight change in name?). It was 10 years since Yanqi U.X.O (why don't I own that?) and I'd got used to getting my fix from A Silver Mt. Zion (or whatever variation of that name was in use), seeing them live a handful of times and really loving what they did (we'll get to those albums soon enough). Then this album appeared and reminded me of what was missing; it's heavier than Godspeed (or 'Gods Pee' as it says on the sleeve) of old, but still unmistakeable (no more parenthesis now).

There are two 'proper' pieces on this album, each one just shy of 20 minutes and taking up an entire side each. This pushes the two shorter noise/experimental/not-really-something-you-choose-to-listen-to tracks onto a companion 7" that I have never and will never play.

Despite the three year gap, [Asunder, Sweet And Other Distress](https://www.discogs.com/Godspeed-You-Black-Emperor-Asunder-Sweet-And-Other-Distress/release/6802242) feels like a companion album. Unfortunately, the only two-albums-on-the-same-day example I can think of is Nelly - Sweat/Suit. We can blame my time running the dance and urban section in HMV Thurrock for that (I think Guns n' Roses did it too, but I cannot begin to express how much I hate that band). Anyway; this album continues that heaviness from 'Allelujah!... to the point where you could switch tracks between albums and nothing would sound out of place. Side A has a locked groove, so you'll be subjected to a looping drone for as long as it takes you to realise. It was about 10 minutes for me.

Finally, [Luciferian Towers](https://www.discogs.com/Godspeed-You-Black-Emperor-Luciferian-Towers/release/10872716). 'Finally' as in, it's the last Goodspeed release I own, but could it also be their final album? You'd think it'd be hard for a band with this kind of sound to keep coming up with the goods, but this is magnificent. Dark, heavy, delicate, still sounding fresh, and beautifully packaged in a white gatefold with black and white photographs and red handwriting. It looks like the music, and I don't care how mad that sounds.

I've touched on this before, but there is a difference between music as entertainment or product, and music as art. Godspeed is art. It's experienced rather than listened to. You probably wont nod your head to it, but if you're wired in a particular way you'll feel it in your chest.
