---
title: '#207'
date: '2020-10-08'
mobile: false
permalink: '/daily/207/'
tags:
  - daily
  - discogs
layout: 'daily'
---

Godspeed You Black Emperor! - [F♯ A♯ ∞](https://www.discogs.com/Godspeed-You-Black-Emperor-F-A-/release/6770817) is a classic album. Apocalyptic instrumental music with a spoken word introduction that alludes to the fall of western civilisation. Maybe? I'm not sure.

> I open up my wallet, and it's full of blood.

This feels like it should be a pretty valuable and rare album, but it seems that isn't the case. The disc itself is 180g, with completely black labels. The track names are engraved, so it's not a total loss.

The sleeve is heavy dark red card with the band name and album title embossed, and a printed image glued in the centre. There are a few variations; mine is of a road sign. On the back, a hand drawn cross, catalogue number and a stamped constellation logo.

Inside the sleeve is perspective drawing of a steam locomotive on black paper, and a small brown envelope containing a print of a flyer for a godspeed show in 1999 with a drawing of a bomb labelled "REPENT", a print that seems to be some kind of diagram to explain the album title, a small slip of paper with album credits, and, my favourite item ever added to an album, a Canadian penny that was flattened by a train.

This is one of my favourite possessions. The album is incredible, but all the extras makes it feel precious. It's precisely because of all the curiosities inside that I always listen to this album digitally. I'd never forgive myself if I lost the penny.
