---
title: '#169'
date: '2020-09-01'
mobile: true
permalink: '/daily/169/'
tags:
  - daily
  - climbs
layout: 'daily'
---

I have been messing around with an idea for a while; nivolet.cc currently serves as a list of cycling climbs I have completed, but the idea was to list climbs that are less well known. Climbs that you might ride past between the well known legends made famous by races and iconic victories.

I honestly don't know how feasible that idea is. I don't really have the local knowledge to do it convincingly, it's more just a record of the research I'd managed to do on Strava or just what's listed in the [100 Greatest Cycling Climbs App](https://www.100climbs.co.uk/apps-1) with all the extras.

While the fate of that side projects hangs in the balance, I can at least write a little about the climbs as I complete them.

Today was [Horseshoe Pass](https://veloviewer.com/segment/5582672) - at 3.6 miles and an average of 5.5% gradient, it sounds very tame. But the maximum of 12.2% and several kilos of luggage on board made it much more of a challenge than it appears on paper.

I'd never cycled up this before but it had a familiar feel. I'm fairly sure I've been on that road before with my Dad but that must have been over 20 years ago at this point.

I'm not a 'good' climber. And by that, I mean I'm not 'fast'. 'Good' is a little misleading for this kind of thing; I have never needed to get off and push on a climb and I'll get over anything. It just might take a little longer than it does for fit, fast, and light riders.
