---
title: '#198'
date: '2020-09-29'
mobile: false
permalink: '/daily/198/'
tags:
  - daily
  - discogs
  - featured
layout: 'daily'
---

I didn't expect it, but it's not too surprising that listening back to all this music is making me feel a bit old. In my mind 2007 was recently, not 13 years ago. That was the year I made the jump from working on the shop floor of HMV to an office based job, working in Soho just a stones throw from not only the independent record stores on Berwick street but also what was, at the time, the largest music store in Europe: HMV Oxford Circus. The dedicated Jazz department was as large as some of the smaller stores, and even in that period where vinyl had fallen out of favour, there was still a huge selection taking up a good portion of the main floor.

When I think about London, that's what I think about. How the city looked and felt _then_, the people I knew and worked with _then_. None of that exists anymore, so while I still think I'd love to live in London again some day I need to recognise that my judgement is a little rose tinted. When I visit now, I don't feel at home.

Explosions In The Sky - [All Of A Sudden I Miss Everyone](https://www.discogs.com/Explosions-In-The-Sky-All-Of-A-Sudden-I-Miss-Everyone/release/921638) among many other similar albums soundtracks that period of my life. This is a really nicely put together package, with sides A and B being on white vinyl, C and D a very dark purple. As there is no music on side D there is instead an etching of water in motion. Not quite waves, not quite a placid lake. The etching is lovely, but it does mean this disc is pretty warped. This is a really great album, full of drama, weight and delicacy.

I'm fairly certain I bought this at Sister Ray in soho. And that access not only to record stores but the centre of one of the world's great cities and everything that brings with it was something I certainly took for granted. Thinking about it this way has made me a little bit sad, almost like mourning. Music has that power.
