---
layout: playlist
title: "Music of 2016"
date: 2016-12-30 00:00:00 +0000
categories: music
spotify_url: "https://open.spotify.com/user/overview/playlist/0CimVYe8ZuDk8legFdJhGC"
---

Compiled across the year, these are my favourite tracks from the albums I liked in 2016. They're not ranked, just ordered to keep the playlist as consistent as possible.

### Full track list

1. Yussef Kamaal - Strings of Light
2. Lettuce - Elephant Walk
3. The Gaslamp Killer - Warm Wind (Frimpong)
4. Matt Chamberlain - Grounded
5. Tortoise - Ox Duke
6. Heliocentrics - From the Deep
7. Kaytranada - Weight off (ft. BadBadNotGood)
8. The Olympians - Sirens of Jupiter
9. El Michaels Affair - Too Late to Turn Back
10. Kutiman - I Think I Am
11. Charles Bradley - Good to be Back Home
12. Lee Fields and The Experssions - Lover Man
13. Childish Gambino - Have Some Love
14. BadBadNotGood - Time Moves Slow (ft. Samuel T. Herring)
15. GoGo Penguin - Weird Cat
16. Neil Cowley Trio - Governance
17. De La Soul - Royalty Capes
18. Homeboy Sandman - Talking (Bleep)
19. DJ Shadow - Nobody Speak (ft. Run The Jewels)
20. Kendrick Lamar - untitled 02 05.28.2013
21. A Tribe Called Quest - Melatonin
22. Vast Aire/Raticus - D.W.I
23. Run The Jewels - Legend Has It
24. Kool Keith - Super Hero (ft. MF Doom)
25. Danny Brown - Really Doe (ft. Kendrick Lamar)
26. Czarface - Machine, Man and Monster (ft. Conway)
27. Aesop Rock - Lotta Years
28. Kate Tempest - Europe is Lost
29. Frank Ocean - Solo (Reprise) (ft. Andre 3000)
30. Massive Attack - Come Near Me (ft. Ghostpoet)
31. Rival Consoles - Slow Song
32. Odd Nosdam - Burrow
33. Loscil - Drained Lake
34. Clark - Strangled to Death in a Public Toilet
35. Jóhann Jóhannsson - De Luce Et Umbra
36. Ólafur Arnalds, Nils Frahm - 00:26
37. Mogwai - U-235
38. Nick Cave & The Bad Seeds - Jesus Alone
39. Dungen - Peri Banu vid sjön
40. Floating Points - Kuiper Part II
41. Beak> - Battery Point
42. Wrekmeister Harmonies - Light Falls III - Light Sick
43. Swans - Cloud of Unknowing
44. Ulver - Moody Stix
45. All Them Wicthes - Swallowed by the Sea
46. Mono - Requiem for Hell
47. Cult of Luna - Approaching Transition (ft. Julie Christmas)
48. Russian Circles - Vorel
49. Sumac - Clutch of Obvlivion(I)
50. Sumac - Clutch of Obvlivion(II)
51. Devin Townsend Project - Failure
52. Animals as Leaders - Arithmophobia
53. Meshuggah - Clockworks
54. Big Business - Popular Demand
55. Emma Ruth Rundle - Marked for Death
56. Iggy Pop - Chocolate Drops
57. The Claypool Lennon Delirium - Boomerang Baby
58. Radiohead - The Numbers
59. David Bowie - Lazarus

### Surprise

**Childish Gambino**. The track I have picked (Have Some Love) sounds like Parliment/Funkadelic at their absolute best. This shouldn't be too surprising considering 'Riot' [contains a sample](/sampled) of 'Good to Your Earhole' and 'Redbone' is clearly influenced by Bootsy Collins.

### Disappointment

**The Claypool/Lennon Delirium**. I'm not sure why I still expect good things from Les Claypool recordings. It's been almost 20 years since The Brown Album which is the last consistently great studio album (despite a glimmer of hope in the shape of Purple Onion and Oysterhead).  This album suffers from the same issues as the last few solo Claypool albums - the recording quality isn't great, and where Les/Sean have decided to handle the drums themselves, the playing isn't at the same standard as the other instruments.

You can always rely on Les Claypool for one thing though: No matter how average the studio album, the live shows that follow will be _exceptional_. I've not been able to see any of this album performed live but the [recordings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cajrnY_fGDk) are excellent, especially with King Crimson and Pink Floyd perfectly covered.

### Special Mention

André 3000's verse (which makes up the entire track) on **Frank Ocean** - Solo (Reprise). It's utterly ridiculous in the best possible way.
