---
title: '#130'
date: '2020-07-23'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/130/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

It's been almost a month since I started to think about a career change, and in that time I have barely even managed to figure out what I'd do. If asked what I would try and get in to if I could do it all over again, my genuine answer is 'I don't know'.

Much of the fear of a career change comes from the potential of blowing up a 10 year strong career, and the experience and salary that can command. I may have transferable skills, but should I decide to go into design _now_ would that really count for much? What would set me apart from a recent graduate with a strong and on-trend portfolio and lower salary expectations?

I was just shown someone else's work in an attempt to perhaps inspire me, or to get some ideas flowing. While I really did appreciate the effort, all it really did was make me feel worse about myself. How I am flying towards 40 with very little to show for it, and huge disdain for my chosen career.

A recruiter posted something on LinkedIn today about an influx of people getting in touch about wanting to leave tech. Getting sick of being a developer, finding the work thankless and uninspiring. It was almost as if she was talking about me. The pandemic must have some influence on this feeling, but I've honestly felt like this for years. Never quite satisfied. Never really nailing the job I'm doing. Never working for a company or with an individual that makes me want to do better. Always feeling as if I am playing catch up.

I think that feeling might be there no matter what I do.
