---
title: '#109'
date: '2020-07-02'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/109/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'daily'
---

Both my day job and my personal work (the long-in-progress v3 of this site) have had a focus on accessibility today, which led to me spending quite a lot of time using a screen reader.

[VoiceOver](https://www.apple.com/uk/accessibility/mac/vision/) is included in MacOS, and it's honestly absolutely baffling at first. It describes whatever is focussed in a way that might not seem obvious if you've never used it before, and it does it _fast_.

Getting into a mindset of there being essentially 2 ways to use a page on the web (visually, and audibly) makes a massive difference. For instance, when looking at a webiste it's clear to see what is and is not the main menu, so there isn't need for a title to mark it. Using a screen reader, you may well just find youself suddenly in a list of menu items with little to explain why and what this list of links actually is. In this case, adding text that's not visible but is still there and available to a screen reader is sensible and should be given just as much time and attention to get right.

Another area I've been working with is Icons. Most icons are completely decorative and should be adjacent to text that does a much better job of explaining what's what. In the case of an icon showing that an accordion can be opened, there is very little value in a title attribute on a '+' icon that explains it's a plus icon. Better, is to add visually hidden text to the button that actually handles the action of opening the accordion, with a label that reads something like 'More account information'. Make it clear.

These considerations are very easy to miss. We don't tend to think about how a website _sounds_ as much as how a website _looks_. I'm extremely guilty of making websites that are very bad for users of assistive technology, and I'm going to do much better.
