---
title: '#138'
date: '2020-07-31'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/138/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

Almost as much as I like riding bikes, I like to build them. Having all the individual parts of a bicycle laid out to be assembled into a finished and working machine is cathartic. In a way.

I usually rebuild each bike once a year, though in the past I have done it just for the sake of it on a weekend. But like many things, as technology has evolved, things have got more complicated.

Both of my road bikes have electronic gears from Campagnolo, and in order to do something like fit a new battery or even assemble it in the first please means the bottom bracket has to come out. The bottom bracket cups are press-fit into the frame, so removing them involves a hammer and fitting means unsing a press to slowly ease them into the frame. Getting either of these wrong could result in a written off frame, and doing it yourself voids the warranty.

Finally, for the sake of vanity, I like to use heat-srink tubes on the cables to keep them as neat and tidy as possible which means carefully routing everything together in a particular order, finishing building the bike, then shrinking the wrapping at the end. Getting part of the routing wrong means unpicking it all and starting again.

Much like making websites, as things have got more advanced and technology has improved, the complexities needed to get an arguably better end result increase dramatically. Where it was once simple to build a quick website or bicycle, it now needs a much more tecnically minded engineer to make it happen. It's doesn't make the old ways less valid, they're just old and no longer at the pinnacle. It's much harder for a hobbyist to do a good job and it's often better left to the professionals.
