---
title: '#2'
date: '2020-03-17'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/2/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'daily'
---

Working from home has now been enforced by my company, so maintaining healthy habits is going to become more and more essential.

It's been really interesting to see how all of these social constructs that are accepted and seen as normal can really be stripped away without a great deal of disruption. The need to be be in a physical space with those you work with is really not actually needed at all, it turns out.

Just because something isn't strictly necessary it doesn't mean it doesn't have some kind of value. Unless you're adapted and suited to working from home this is likely to be a hard transition. The removal of habits that surround going to an office could be pretty disruptive.

The agreed advice is to get up at the normal time, to get dressed and ready for work, and try and separate where you sit to work from where you sit to relax. That comes down to discipline, and it's definitely really easy to slip into a habit of waking up 10 minutes before you usually start working and checking your emails and slack in bed.

I'm attempting to replace my commute with a work out. I'm going to try and go cycling while we're still allowed to leave the house. If I let myself slip it's going to be really hard to get back into good habits and I'm already unhappy with my mental and physical health.

Among the actual horror of this situation there could be some opportunity to improve both ourselves and as a society once the dust has settled. I'm trying to see reasons to be optimistic but I'm also well aware that this is going to get a lot worse before it gets better.
