---
title: '#40'
date: '2020-04-24'
mobile: false
featured: true
permalink: '/daily/40/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'main'
---

I've always had an interest in the aftermath of hurricane Katrina. From the the Spike Lee documentary _When the Levees Broke_, or from the HBO series Treme which despite being fictional really gives an insight into post disaster New Orleans. It serves as an example of how a government can completely mishandle a major issue.

Today I started to read\* [_The Shock Doctrine_](https://www.waterstones.com/book/the-shock-doctrine/naomi-klein//9780141024530) by Naomi Klein. In the introduction she talks about how Katrina was seen as an opportunity to level public housing and replace it with condos. To gut the public school system and impose a subsidised private schools while killing off the teachers union, firing them all and hiring some back at lower pay. Disaster Capitalism.

> That's the standard technique of privatization: defund, make sure things don't work, people get angry, you hand it over to private capital.

Even before COVID-19, moves were being made to justify the privatisation of the NHS. Targets were missed month after month, and investment just wasn't there to get close to them. Now we're in the middle of the lockdown, there is a national love and appreciation for our health service but I am more and more convinced that when things start to return to normal the failings of the government to provide adequate PPE, tests, and resources will be used as yet more justification for privatisation. And that will happen with public approval or not. That's a terrifying prospect.

<small>
  \* I'm actually listening to this book. I never really saw the appeal of audiobooks over reading
  before, but with the removal of my commute I've been struggling to find good time to turn pages.
  Audiobooks are perfect for my post-work walk.
</small>
