---
title: '#39'
date: '2020-04-23'
mobile: false
featured: true
permalink: '/daily/39/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'main'
---

America.

I think with the bulk of our entertainment being American and the shared language it's easy for British people to think that our cultures are more similar than they actually are. Religious extremism, televangelists, Trump, healthcare, guns, Jesus, neoliberalism, and the recent anti-lockdown protests. People are literally comparing it to slavery. To communism. Their obsession with freedom and liberty is at the expense of common sense, facts and empathy for other people is king.

People looking for answers will hear the likes of Rush Limbaugh and Tucker Carlson (other bigots are available) spouting their insane 'opinions for money', take it as fact and let it form their own beliefs without ever thinking about the reality. Worse, Trump also listens to these pundits and repeats their points while standing behind the presidential seal.

In the UK Conservative policies have been extremely harmful (though they're still to the left of the Democratic core) and yet they have a majority. People applaud at 8pm on a Thursday to thank NHS workers, but voted for a party that's been systematically fucking them for years. British people will believe what the right wing media tells without critical thought too. But really, this is nothing compared to the USA. Not even close.

UPDATE: I don't usually add to or amend daily writing, but a few hours after I wrote this Trump used a press conference to suggest that INJECTING BLEACH might we a way to kill the virus in someone who has contracted it. It wouldn't surprise me at all if some of his loyal followers went through with it. People already found and took hydroxychloroquine on his recommendation which had the double edged effect of killing those that took it for COVID and causing shortages for those that legitimately needed it.

I don't know how Trump survived 'grab 'em by the pussy'. For many, that was the line. But I cannot fathom how he still manages to find new depths, and still remain largely unchallenged. Those republicans that prevented his impeachment are implicit in this continued embarrassment. How acn they live with themselves?
