---
title: '#45'
date: '2020-04-29'
mobile: false
featured: false
permalink: '/daily/45/'
tags: daily
layout: 'daily'
---

Over the last two days I have been listening to every Pink Floyd album in order. In part because it's been a while since I listened to some of this music, but also to remove the burden of having to decide what to listen to. I may do this for several artists, and I may or may not write about each one.

It's interesting to hear the transition between who's leading the band. Piper at the Gates of Dawn is all Syd, a Saucerful of Secrets is kind of blurry; there is a lot of Syd in there, with other contributions feeling like they need to emulate the style.

Up until Echoes, which makes up the whole second half of Meddle, it's anyones guess who's steering the ship. There are some fantastic moments (Fearless, Fat Old Sun, Cymbaline) but also a lot that is best forgotten (all of Ummagumma).

Dark Side of the Moon and Wish you Were Here are the stand out albums, but I think that Animals is the peak. It was the beginning of the end of Pink Floyd the unit, but the content is absolutely flawless.

The Wall and The Final Cut may as well be Roger Waters solo albums. And while I have always favoured Gilmour for his musicianship and vocals, Waters is untouchable when it comes to concept and seeing an album as a complete work rather than a collection of songs. That is very clear when listening to A Momentary Lapse of Reason and The Division Bell. Of the two, the latter really holds up. The former is the sound of the era, and not in a good way.

For most people, the album they are most fond of from any band is often the one they heard first. Animals is by far my favourite studio album (it's the best album of all time), but the Pulse live album is special to me. It's how I got into the band, and the quality of playing from end to end still blows my mind 26 years later.
