---
title: '#33'
date: '2020-04-17'
mobile: false
featured: true
permalink: '/daily/33/'
tags: daily
changeFreq: 'never'
layout: 'daily'
---

> Depression feels like you're wearing a weighted vest... I came across to people as bored, or cold, or superior, none of which I wanted to come across as.

Neal Brennan talks openly about depression in his Netflix special [3 Mics](https://open.spotify.com/album/1UWjj2rYNEglmRkRA350XH) and he manages to describe a lot of how I feel better than I could ever manage.

> I think people with depression have a reputation for feeling sorry for themselves, or that they fell into a bad mood and were too lazy to get themselves out of it.

I have worked at several jobs where it would take me a long time to open up to people, and I would instead quietly get on with my work. One time, someone said that they always thought that I believed I was better than other people. They took my choice to stay separate as being stuck up.

I don't think I am better than anyone, at anything. Anyone who has known me for a while could tell you that. Self confidence is something I'm simply not capable of having. I'm frequently hard on myself and always believe the things I have done are worthless, not impressive, and could be easily achieved by anyone else if they decided to try.

If there is one thing there is a lot of time for right now, it's self reflection. I'm trying not to look inwards too much, and rather focus on the things I know I can do and that I would get better at if I put the time and effort in. For a lot of people, the prospect of results might be enough to drive them, or a sense of competition. For me, I think actual evidence of improvement might do the trick.

A lower number on the scales, a higher number for cycling distance/speed/climbing, writing some JavaScript that used to be confusing without thinking too hard...
